<!--
习题4

1、请阐述HBase和传统关系数据库的区别

2、分别解释HBase中行键、列族和时间戳的概念

3、试述 HBase 的三层结构中各层次的名称和作用

4、在HBase中，每个Region 服务器维护一个HLog，而不是为每个Region都单独维护一个HLog。请说明这种做法的优点和缺点。
-->
# 习题4
1. 请阐述HBase和传统关系数据库的区别
2. 分别解释HBase中行键、列族和时间戳的概念
3. 试述 HBase 的三层结构中各层次的名称和作用
4. 在HBase中，每个Region 服务器维护一个HLog，而不是为每个Region都单独维护一个HLog。请说明这种做法的优点和缺点。

---

1. 
	- Data type
	  Traditional relational databases are based on relational models, featuring various data types and storing methods. HBase uses a much simpler data model, storing data as uninterpreted strings.
	- Data manipulation
	  Traditional relational databases offer a rich set of operations, many involves complex multi-table joins. HBase operations are simpler, primarily focusing on basic insertions, queries, deletions and clearing, as its design avoids complex inter-table relationships.
	- Storage model
	  Traditional relational databases are typically based on row-oriented storage. HBase utilizes a column-family oriented storage model, where different column families are stored in separated files.
	- Data indexing
	  Traditional relational databases can usually build multiple complex indexes on different columns to enhance data access performance. HBase only uses a single index, the row key, to access all the data by direct access or scanning.
	- Data maintenance
	  Traditional relational databases' update operations will override the old values with the latest ones. HBase's update will generates a new version of the data, while older versions are retained.
	- Scalability
	  Traditional relational databases find it challenging to scale horizontally, and vertical scaling is also limited. HBase, the distributed database, are designed for flexible horizontal scaling, allowing performance to be easily adjusted by adding or removing nodes in the cluster.
2. 
	- row key: the unique identifier for an HBase's row
	- column family: the fundamental component of an HBase table schema and the basic unit for access control
	- timestamp: the index for differentiate between different versions of a cell's value
3. 
	- lib functions: linked to each client
	- a Master Server: manage and maintain HBase table partition information, maintain the list of Region Servers, assign Regions, perform load balancing
	- many Region Servers: store and maintain the Regions assigned to them, process the read/write requests from clients
4. 
	- Pros: higher performance in writing tables
	- Cons: needs to be splitted when recovering
